---
title: renderToNodeStream
---

* `renderToNodeStream`
  * 鈿狅笍deprecated鈿狅笍
    * replaced -- by -- [`renderToPipeableStream`](renderToPipeableStream.md)
  * renders
    * a React tree | [Node.js Readable Stream](https://nodejs.org/api/stream.html#readable-streams)
  * use cases
    * | server

## Reference {/*reference*/}

### `renderToNodeStream(reactNode, options?)` {/*rendertonodestream*/}

TODO: On the client, call [`hydrateRoot`](../client/hydrateRoot) to make the server-generated HTML interactive.

#### Parameters {/*parameters*/}

* `reactNode`: A React node you want to render to HTML. For example, a JSX element like `<App />`.

* **optional** `options`: An object for server render.
  * **optional** `identifierPrefix`: A string prefix React uses for IDs generated by [`useId`.](/reference/react/useId) Useful to avoid conflicts when using multiple roots on the same page. Must be the same prefix as passed to [`hydrateRoot`.](/reference/react-dom/client/hydrateRoot#parameters)

#### Returns {/*returns*/}

* [Node.js Readable Stream](https://nodejs.org/api/stream.html#readable-streams) / outputs an HTML string
  * uses
    * pipe | response

#### Caveats {/*caveats*/}

* This method will wait for all [Suspense boundaries](/reference/react/Suspense) to complete before returning any output.

* As of React 18, this method buffers all of its output, so it doesn't actually provide any streaming benefits. This is why it's recommended that you migrate to [`renderToPipeableStream`](/reference/react-dom/server/renderToPipeableStream) instead.

* The returned stream is a byte stream encoded in utf-8. If you need a stream in another encoding, take a look at a project like [iconv-lite](https://www.npmjs.com/package/iconv-lite), which provides transform streams for transcoding text.

---

## Usage {/*usage*/}

### Rendering a React tree as HTML to a Node.js Readable Stream {/*rendering-a-react-tree-as-html-to-a-nodejs-readable-stream*/}

Call `renderToNodeStream` to get a [Node.js Readable Stream](https://nodejs.org/api/stream.html#readable-streams) which you can pipe to your server response:

```js {5-6}
import { renderToNodeStream } from 'react-dom/server';

// The route handler syntax depends on your backend framework
app.use('/', (request, response) => {
  const stream = renderToNodeStream(<App />);
  stream.pipe(response);
});
```

The stream will produce the initial non-interactive HTML output of your React components. On the client, you will need to call [`hydrateRoot`](/reference/react-dom/client/hydrateRoot) to *hydrate* that server-generated HTML and make it interactive.
